First draft of FIL+ premium proposal (#263)
filecoin-project/FIPs: FIPS/fil-filplussubsidy.md

---
fip: <to be assigned>
title: Explicit subsidy for FIL+ verified deals
author: Alex North (@anorth)
discussions-to: https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/discussions/243
status: Draft
type: Technical (Core)
created: 2022-01-12
---

This FIP is not yet 100% complete, but is substantial enough to warrant community involvement prior to completion.

Outstanding items:
- A scheme for withholding deal reward from faulty sectors and enacting penalties
- Implementation details for pledge and penalties
- Devise an asymptote function for deal reward as share of total network reward
- Validation of the reward, pledge, and penalty function behaviour and ~equivalence with existing implementation.
- More detailed spec of migration logic
- Decide what to do with unclaimed rewards

## Simple Summary
Removes the concept of quality-adjusted power from the storage powered consensus and instead 
redirects part of the block reward as an explicit subsidy paid to providers of Filecoin Plus verified deals.

## Abstract

> The Filecoin network is secured by continually proven storage capacity, for which providers (miners) earn block reward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Filecoin network is secured by continually proven storage capacity, for which storage providers earn block rewards.
```

Author: I have consistently used "provider" everywhere except when referring to the on-chain actor, which is still called miner. This parenthetical is the one call-out to make sure that people used to the old language understand that these concepts are the same thing, and that I'll be referring to them as providers in the rest of the document.

To incentivise the storage of useful data, the Filecoin Plus program incentivises the storage of verified deals

> by causing them to count for 10 times the storage power as other sectors, thus earning 10 times the block reward. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by causing them to count for 10 times the storage power as other sectors, thus increasing the possibility of winning block rewards by 10x. 
```

Reviewer 2: This is not entirely true. a 32GB sector would give you 32GiB network power.

A 32GB sector with a 32GB verified deal will give you an *additional* 283.6 GiB (the deal itself counts for 31.51GiB max)

The network power thus is not increased by 10x, but by x8.8625. Or, effectively, the storage power per filled sector is x9.8625.

Reviewer 3: Sectors and Deals are denominated in GiB as well (not in GB).
The verified deal *increases* power by 9x sector size but your resulting power is 10x higher than it would be without a verified deal and so are your rewards.
